[[Decoupling]], [batch]

# AWS Batch

- AWS Batch allows to run batch computing workloads within AWS (run on EC2 or ECS/Fargate)
- Removes heavy lifting for configuration and management of infrastructure required
- Automatically provision and scale
- No install required

## Components

- **Job:** Units of work that are submitted to AWS Batch (shell scripts, executables, and Docker images)
- **Job definitions**: Specific how your jobs are to be run
- **Job queues:** Jobs get submitted to specific queue
- **Compute Environment**: Fargate/ECS or EC2

### How to choose between Fargate and EC2

#### Fargate
- Recommended for most workloads
- Require fast start times (<30 sec)
- Require 16 vCPU or less
- Require no GPUs
- Require 120 GB or less

#### EC2
- Need more control over instance selection 
- Require GPUs
- Require Elastic Fabric Adapter
- Require custom AIMs
- Hight level of concurrency
- Require access to Linux parameter

## Lambda or Batch

- **Time Limits:** Lambda has 15-min execution time limit. Batch does not have this
- **Disk space**: Lambda has limited disk space, and EFS requires functions live within VPC
- **Runtime Limitations**: Lambda is serverless but it has limited runtimes
- **Batch runtime**: Batch uses Docker, so any runtime can be used
##### Which one? It's depend on your use case.

## Managed and Unmanaged

### Managed
- AWS manages capacity and instance types
- Compute resources specs are defined when environment is created
- ECS instances are launched into VPC subnets
- Default is the most recent and approved Amazon ECS AMI. But you can use your own AMI
- Leverage Fargate and Spot instances

### Unmanaged
- You manage your own resources
- AMI must meet ECS AMI specs
- Less commonly used compared to managed
- Good choice for extremely complex or specific requirement

# Exam Tips

- Batch is perfect for long-running and event driven workloads. Anything requiring more than 15 min
- This is managed service, leverage AWS to handle infrastructure creations and configurations
- Jobs: Units of work submitted to AWS Batch. Job definitions: Blueprints within the job. All jobs get submitted to queues.