Kubernetes cluster consists of 2 types of resources:
- The **Control Plane** coordinates the cluster
- **Nodes** are the workers that run applications

**Control Plane** is responsible for managing the cluster such as: scheduling applications, maintaining applications' desired state, scaling applications, and rolling out new updates.

	Control Planes manage the cluster and the nodes that are used to host the running applications

**A Node** is a VM or physical computer that serves as a worker machine in a Kubernetes cluster.
Each node has a ***Kubelet***. 

**Kubelet** is a agent for managing the node and communicating with the Kubernetes control plane.

	A Kubernetes cluster that handles production traffic should have a minimum of 3 nodes.


### Kubernetes Architecture

#### Control Plane or Master Node
- Master Node or the control plane (virtual or physical machine) and connect to **Worker Nodes** or just **Nodes**.
- Master Node runs several kubernetes processes to control Worker Nodes.

Some important processes: 
- **API Server**: which is also a container including: dashboard, API for scripting or CLI
- **Controller Manager**: Keep track of whats happening in the cluster
- **Scheduler**: Ensure Pods placement. Scheduler decides on which Work Node the next container should be schedule on an available resource and the load that container needs by using an intelligent
- **etcd**: Kubernetes backing store. This hold at any time the kubernetes current state of the kubernetes cluster. It has all the configuration data inside and all the status of each node and each container inside of that node. Also so hold the back up and restore etcd snapshots, because you can recover the whole cluster state using etcd snapshot

#### Worker Nodes
Each Node has a Kubelet to communicate together. Containers (applications) is running inside Worker Nodes

#### Virtual Network

Virtual network inside the kubernetes enables those nodes, worker nodes, master nodes talk to each other.

In simple words, virtual network turns all the nodes inside of the cluster into one machine that has the sum of all the resources of individual nodes 