[[Scaling]]

## Steps Scaling

Step scaling applies stepped adjustments to vary the scaling depending on the size of the alarm breach

Example: if the memory reach 50% -> automatically add more instance -> memory drop to 30%

Then if the memory drop down to 30% -> automatically remove instance

## Simple Scaling

Relies on metrics for scaling needs.
Ex: Add 1 EC2 if CPU utilization metric > 80%

## Target Tracking

Uses a scaling metric and value that your ASG should maintain at all times

Ex: Maintain ASGAverageCPUUtilization = 50%, the ASG always keep the CPU 50% and automatically add or remove instances

## Instance warm-up and cooldown

### Warm up

Stops instances from being placed behind the load balancer, failing the health check, and being terminated prematurely.

### Cooldown

Pause AS for a set amount of time. Helps to avoid runaway scaling events.

# Scaling Types

## 1. Reactive Scaling

You're playing catchup. Once the load is there, you measure it and then determine if you need to create more resources.

## 2. Scheduled Scaling

If you have predictable workload, create a scaling event to get your resources ready to go before they're actually needed

## 3. Predictive Scaling

AWS uses its machine learning algorithms to determine when you'll need to scale. They are reervaluated every 24 hours to create a forecast for the next 48 hours

# Exam Tips

**It costs how much?**

-> You will need to good understanding of how AS **handles min, max, and desired capacity for the exam**

You will be given scenarios where you'll need to know the cost implications and reasons why you might or might nor want to change one of those numbers

#### **Auto Scaling Polices**:

- **Scale out aggressively**: Get ahead of workload if you need to (Think about predictive scaling or scheduled scaling)
- **Scale  in conservatively**: Once the instances are up, slowly roll them back when not needed
- **Provisioning**: Keep an eye on provisioning times. Bake those AMIs to minimize it
- **Costs**: Use EC2 reserved instances for minimum count of EC2 instances to save money
- **CloudWatch**: Your go-to tool for alerting AS that you need more or less instances