[[Big Data]]

## Kinesis

Kinesis allows to ingest, process, and analyze real-time streaming data. 

## 2 versions

### Data Streams

- **Purpose:** Real-time streaming for ingesting data
- **Speed**: Real time
- **Difficulty:** You're responsible for creating the consumer and scaling the stream

### Data Firehose

- **Purpose:** Data transfer tool to get information to S3, Redshift, Elasticsearch, or Splunk
- **Speed**: Near real time (within 60 sec)
- **Difficulty:** Plug and play with AWS architecture

## Kinesis Data Analytics vs SQS

#### Kinesis Data Analytics
Transforming data? -> Kinesis Data Analytics

- Easy: It's very simple to tie data analytics into Kinesis pipeline. Supported by Firehose and data streams
- No server: Fully-managed real-time serverless
- Cost: Only pay for amount of resources you consume as your data passes through

Scenario:
- If you're looking for a message broker, that messaging queue, which service do we pick?

Both are message brokers, but only Kinesis is real time
##### SQS
SQS is a messaging broker that is simple to  use and doesn't require much configuration. It doesn't offer real-time message delivery

vs.
##### Kinesis
Kinesis is a bit more complicated to configured and mostly used in big data application. It does provide real-time communication

# Exam Tips

- Real time? -> Kinesis
- Near real-time -> Kinesis Firehose 
- Real-time -> Data streams
- Transforming data? -> Kinesis Data Analytics through Kinesis using SQL
- Scaling? Data streams does not, Firehose does



